Regulation - EU - 2024/1689 - EN - EUR-Lex (https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1689/oj/eng)
citeturn32view0 [wordlim: 200] Crawled: today; Content type: text/html; Source: find({"ref_id":"https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1689/oj/eng","pattern":"‘provider’"}); Total lines: 3291
L1385: (a)  | verify that the EU declaration of conformity referred to in Article 47 and the technical documentation referred to in Article 11 have been drawn up and that an appropriate conformity assessment procedure has been carried out by the provider;
L1387: (c)  | provide a competent authority, upon a reasoned request, with all the information and documentation, including that referred to in point (b) of this subparagraph, necessary to demonstrate the conformity of a high-risk AI system with the requirements set out in Section 2, including access to the logs, as referred to in Article 12(1), automatically generated by the high-risk AI system, to the extent such logs are under the control of the provider;
L1388: (d)  | cooperate with competent authorities, upon a reasoned request, in any action the latter take in relation to the high-risk AI system, in particular to reduce and mitigate the risks posed by the high-risk AI system;
L1389: (e)  | where applicable, comply with the registration obligations referred to in Article 49(1), or, if the registration is carried out by the provider itself, ensure that the information referred to in point 3 of Section A of Annex VIII is correct.
L1390: The mandate shall empower the authorised representative to be addressed, in addition to or instead of the provider, by the competent authorities, on all issues related to ensuring compliance with this Regulation.
L1391: 4.   The authorised representative shall terminate the mandate if it considers or has reason to consider the provider to be acting contrary to its obligations pursuant to this Regulation. In such a case, it shall immediately inform the relevant market surveillance authority, as well as, where applicable, the relevant notified body, about the termination of the mandate and the reasons therefor.
L1392: 
L1393: Article 23
L1394: 
L1395: Obligations of importers
L1397: (a)  | the relevant conformity assessment procedure referred to in Article 43 has been carried out by the provider of the high-risk AI system;
L1398: (b)  | the provider has drawn up the technical documentation in accordance with Article 11 and Annex IV;
L1399: (c)  | the system bears the required CE marking and is accompanied by the EU declaration of conformity referred to in Article 47 and instructions for use;
L1400: (d)  | the provider has appointed an authorised representative in accordance with Article 22(1).
L1417: Where the high-risk AI system presents a risk within the meaning of Article 79(1), the distributor shall immediately inform the provider or importer of the system and the authorities competent for the high-risk AI system concerned, giving details, in particular, of the non-compliance and of any corrective actions taken.
L1424: 1.   Any distributor, importer, deployer or other third-party shall be considered to be a provider of a high-risk AI system for the purposes of this Regulation and shall be subject to the obligations of the provider under Article 16, in any of the following circumstances:
L1425: (a)  | they put their name or trademark on a high-risk AI system already placed on the market or put into service, without prejudice to contractual arrangements stipulating that the obligations are otherwise allocated;
L1426: (b)  | they make a substantial modification to a high-risk AI system that has already been placed on the market or has already been put into service in such a way that it remains a high-risk AI system pursuant to Article 6;
L1427: (c)  | they modify the intended purpose of an AI system, including a general-purpose AI system, which has not been classified as high-risk and has already been placed on the market or put into service in such a way that the AI system concerned becomes a high-risk AI system in accordance with Article 6.
L1428: 2.   Where the circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 occur, the provider that initially placed the AI system on the market or put it into service shall no longer be considered to be a provider of that specific AI system for the purposes of this Regulation.
L1429: That initial provider shall closely cooperate with new providers and shall make available the necessary information and provide the reasonably expected technical access and other assistance that are required for the fulfilment of the obligations set out in this Regulation, in particular regarding the compliance with the conformity assessment of high-risk AI systems.
L1430: This paragraph shall not apply in cases where the initial provider has clearly specified that its AI system is not to be changed into a high-risk AI system and therefore does not fall under the obligation to hand over the documentation.
L1431: 3.   In the case of high-risk AI systems that are safety components of products covered by the Union harmonisation legislation listed in Section A of Annex I, the product manufacturer shall be considered to be the provider of the high-risk AI system, and shall be subject to the obligations under Article 16 under either of the following circumstances:
L1434: 4.   The provider of a high-risk AI system and the third party that supplies an AI system, tools, services, components, or processes that are used or integrated in a high-risk AI system shall, by written agreement, specify the necessary information, capabilities, technical access and other assistance based on the generally acknowledged state of the art, in order to enable the provider of the high-risk AI system to fully comply with the obligations set out in this Regulation.
L1761: 2.   Before placing on the market or putting into service an AI system for which the provider has concluded that it is not high-risk according to Article 6(3), that provider or, where applicable, the authorised representative shall register themselves and that system in the EU database referred to in Article 71.
L1849: 7.   Any information or documentation obtained pursuant to this Article, including trade secrets, shall be treated in accordance with the confidentiality obligations set out in Article 78.
L1850: 
L1851: Article 54
L1852: 
L1853: Authorised representatives of providers of general-purpose AI models
L1854: 
L1856: 2.   The provider shall enable its authorised representative to perform the tasks specified in the mandate received from the provider.
L1857: 3.   The authorised representative shall perform the tasks specified in the mandate received from the provider. It shall provide a copy of the mandate to the AI Office upon request, in one of the official languages of the institutions of the Union. For the purposes of this Regulation, the mandate shall empower the authorised representative to carry out the following tasks:
L1858: (a)  | verify that the technical documentation specified in Annex XI has been drawn up and all obligations referred to in Article 53 and, where applicable, Article 55 have been fulfilled by the provider;
L1859: (b)  | keep a copy of the technical documentation specified in Annex XI at the disposal of the AI Office and national competent authorities, for a period of 10 years after the general-purpose AI model has been placed on the market, and the contact details of the provider that appointed the authorised representative;
L1860: (c)  | provide the AI Office, upon a reasoned request, with all the information and documentation, including that referred to in point (b), necessary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations in this Chapter;
L1861: (d)  | cooperate with the AI Office and competent authorities, upon a reasoned request, in any action they take in relation to the general-purpose AI model, including when the model is integrated into AI systems placed on the market or put into service in the Union.
L1862: 4.   The mandate shall empower the authorised representative to be addressed, in addition to or instead of the provider, by the AI Office or the competent authorities, on all issues related to ensuring compliance with this Regulation.
L1863: 5.   The authorised representative shall terminate the mandate if it considers or has reason to consider the provider to be acting contrary to its obligations pursuant to this Regulation. In such a case, it shall also immediately inform the AI Office about the termination of the mandate and the reasons therefor.
L1926: 8.   Subject to the confidentiality provisions in Article 78, and with the agreement of the provider or prospective provider, the Commission and the Board shall be authorised to access the exit reports and shall take them into account, as appropriate, when exercising their tasks under this Regulation.
L1927: If both the provider or prospective provider and the national competent authority explicitly agree, the exit report may be made publicly available through the single information platform referred to in this Article.
L2009: (c)  | the provider or prospective provider, with the exception of providers or prospective providers of high-risk AI systems referred to in points 1, 6 and 7 of Annex III in the areas of law enforcement, migration, asylum and border control management, and high-risk AI systems referred to in point 2 of Annex III has registered the testing in real world conditions in accordance with Article 71(4) with a Union-wide unique single identification number and with the information specified in Annex IX; the provider or prospective provider of high-risk AI systems referred to in points 1, 6 and 7 of Annex III in the areas of law enforcement, migration, asylum and border control management, has registered the testing in real-world conditions in the secure non-public section of the EU database according to Article 49(4), point (d), with a Union-wide unique single identification number and with the information specified therein; the provider or prospective provider of high-risk AI systems referred to in point 2 of Annex III has registered the testing in real-world conditions in accordance with Article 49(5);
L2010: (d)  | the provider or prospective provider conducting the testing in real world conditions is established in the Union or has appointed a legal representative who is established in the Union;
L2011: (e)  | data collected and processed for the purpose of the testing in real world conditions shall be transferred to third countries only provided that appropriate and applicable safeguards under Union law are implemented;
L2012: (f)  | the testing in real world conditions does not last longer than necessary to achieve its objectives and in any case not longer than six months, which may be extended for an additional period of six months, subject to prior notification by the provider or prospective provider to the market surveillance authority, accompanied by an explanation of the need for such an extension;
L2014: (h)  | where a provider or prospective provider organises the testing in real world conditions in cooperation with one or more deployers or prospective deployers, the latter have been informed of all aspects of the testing that are relevant to their decision to participate, and given the relevant instructions for use of the AI system referred to in Article 13; the provider or prospective provider and the deployer or prospective deployer shall conclude an agreement specifying their roles and responsibilities with a view to ensuring compliance with the provisions for testing in real world conditions under this Regulation and under other applicable Union and national law;
L2016: (j)  | the testing in real world conditions is effectively overseen by the provider or prospective provider, as well as by deployers or prospective deployers through persons who are suitably qualified in the relevant field and have the necessary capacity, training and authority to perform their tasks;
L2017: (k)  | the predictions, recommendations or decisions of the AI system can be effectively reversed and disregarded.
L2018: 5.   Any subjects of the testing in real world conditions, or their legally designated representative, as appropriate, may, without any resulting detriment and without having to provide any justification, withdraw from the testing at any time by revoking their informed consent and may request the immediate and permanent deletion of their personal data. The withdrawal of the informed consent shall not affect the activities already carried out.
L2019: 6.   In accordance with Article 75, Member States shall confer on their market surveillance authorities the powers of requiring providers and prospective providers to provide information, of carrying out unannounced remote or on-site inspections, and of performing checks on the conduct of the testing in real world conditions and the related high-risk AI systems. Market surveillance authorities shall use those powers to ensure the safe development of testing in real world conditions.
L2020: 7.   Any serious incident identified in the course of the testing in real world conditions shall be reported to the national market surveillance authority in accordance with Article 73. The provider or prospective provider shall adopt immediate mitigation measures or, failing that, shall suspend the testing in real world conditions until such mitigation takes place, or otherwise terminate it.
L2021: The provider or prospective provider shall establish a procedure for the prompt recall of the AI system upon such termination of the testing in real world conditions.
L2022: 8.   Providers or prospective providers shall notify the national market surveillance authority in the Member State where the testing in real world conditions is to be conducted of the suspension or termination of the testing in real world conditions and of the final outcomes.
L2023: 
L2024: 9.   The provider or prospective provider shall be liable under applicable Union and national liability law for any damage caused in the course of their testing in real world conditions.
L2025: 
L2026: Article 61
L2027: Informed consent to participate in testing in real world conditions outside AI regulatory sandboxes
L2028: 
L2029: 1.   For the purpose of testing in real world conditions under Article 60, freely-given informed consent shall be obtained from the subjects of testing prior to their participation in such testing and after their having been duly informed with concise, clear, relevant, and understandable information regarding:
L2209: The information registered in accordance with Article 60 shall be accessible only to market surveillance authorities and the Commission, unless the prospective provider or provider has given consent for also making the information accessible the public.
L2244: 4.   Notwithstanding paragraph 2, in the event of the death of a person, the report shall be provided immediately after the provider or the deployer has established, or as soon as it suspects, a causal relationship between the high-risk AI system and the serious incident, but not later than 10 days after the date on which the provider or, where applicable, the deployer becomes aware of the serious incident.
L2245: 5.   Where necessary to ensure timely reporting, the provider or, where applicable, the deployer, may submit an initial report that is incomplete, followed by a complete report.
L2246: 
L2247: 6.   Following the reporting of a serious incident pursuant to paragraph 1, the provider shall, without delay, perform the necessary investigations in relation to the serious incident and the AI system concerned. This shall include a risk assessment of the incident, and corrective action.
L2300: 2.   Where testing in real world conditions is conducted for AI systems that are supervised within an AI regulatory sandbox under Article 58, the market surveillance authorities shall verify the compliance with Article 60 as part of their supervisory role for the AI regulatory sandbox. Those authorities may, as appropriate, allow the testing in real world conditions to be conducted by the provider or prospective provider, in derogation from the conditions set out in Article 60(4), points (f) and (g).
L2301: 3.   Where a market surveillance authority has been informed by the prospective provider, the provider or any third party of a serious incident or has other grounds for considering that the conditions set out in Articles 60 and 61 are not met, it may take either of the following decisions on its territory, as appropriate:
L2302: (a)  | to suspend or terminate the testing in real world conditions;
L2303: (b)  | to require the provider or prospective provider and the deployer or prospective deployer to modify any aspect of the testing in real world conditions.
L2304: 4.   Where a market surveillance authority has taken a decision referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, or has issued an objection within the meaning of Article 60(4), point (b), the decision or the objection shall indicate the grounds therefor and how the provider or prospective provider can challenge the decision or objection.
L2364: 4.   The provider shall ensure that all necessary action is taken to bring the AI system into compliance with the requirements and obligations laid down in this Regulation. Where the provider of an AI system concerned does not bring the AI system into compliance with those requirements and obligations within the period referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the provider shall be subject to fines in accordance with Article 99.
L2365: 5.   The provider shall ensure that all appropriate corrective action is taken in respect of all the AI systems concerned that it has made available on the Union market.
L2366: 
L2367: 6.   Where the provider of the AI system concerned does not take adequate corrective action within the period referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, Article 79(5) to (9) shall apply.
L2368: 7.   Where, in the course of the evaluation pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, the market surveillance authority establishes that the AI system was misclassified by the provider as non-high-risk in order to circumvent the application of requirements in Chapter III, Section 2, the provider shall be subject to fines in accordance with Article 99.
L2449: (a)  | the point of contact of the provider of the general-purpose AI model concerned;
L2450: (b)  | a description of the relevant facts, the provisions of this Regulation concerned, and the reason why the downstream provider considers that the provider of the general-purpose AI model concerned infringed this Regulation;
L2451: (c)  | any other information that the downstream provider that sent the request considers relevant, including, where appropriate, information gathered on its own initiative.
L2452: 
L2453: Article 90
L2470: 1.   The Commission may request the provider of the general-purpose AI model concerned to provide the documentation drawn up by the provider in accordance with Articles 53 and 55, or any additional information that is necessary for the purpose of assessing compliance of the provider with this Regulation.
L2471: 
L2472: 2.   Before sending the request for information, the AI Office may initiate a structured dialogue with the provider of the general-purpose AI model.
L2473: 3.   Upon a duly substantiated request from the scientific panel, the Commission may issue a request for information to a provider of a general-purpose AI model, where the access to information is necessary and proportionate for the fulfilment of the tasks of the scientific panel under Article 68(2).
L2475: 5.   The provider of the general-purpose AI model concerned, or its representative shall supply the information requested. In the case of legal persons, companies or firms, or where the provider has no legal personality, the persons authorised to represent them by law or by their statutes, shall supply the information requested on behalf of the provider of the general-purpose AI model concerned. Lawyers duly authorised to act may supply information on behalf of their clients.
L2482: (a)  | to assess compliance of the provider with obligations under this Regulation, where the information gathered pursuant to Article 91 is insufficient; or
L2483: (b)  | to investigate systemic risks at Union level of general-purpose AI models with systemic risk, in particular following a qualified alert from the scientific panel in accordance with Article 90(1), point (a).
L2488: 5.   The providers of the general-purpose AI model concerned or its representative shall supply the information requested. In the case of legal persons, companies or firms, or where the provider has no legal personality, the persons authorised to represent them by law or by their statutes, shall provide the access requested on behalf of the provider of the general-purpose AI model concerned.
L2490: 7.   Prior to requesting access to the general-purpose AI model concerned, the AI Office may initiate a structured dialogue with the provider of the general-purpose AI model to gather more information on the internal testing of the model, internal safeguards for preventing systemic risks, and other internal procedures and measures the provider has taken to mitigate such risks.
L2491: 
L2492: Article 93
L2493: 
L2494: Power to request measures
L2495: 
L2496: 1.   Where necessary and appropriate, the Commission may request providers to:
L3035:  | 3.1.  | The application of the provider shall include:
L3036: (a) the name and address of the provider and, if the application is lodged by an authorised representative, also their name and address;
L3037: (b) the list of AI systems covered under the same quality management system;
L3038: (c) the technical documentation for each AI system covered under the same quality management system;
L3039: (d) the documentation concerning the quality management system which shall cover all the aspects listed under Article 17;
L3042:  | 3.2.  | The quality management system shall be assessed by the notified body, which shall determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in Article 17. The decision shall be notified to the provider or its authorised representative. The notification shall contain the conclusions of the assessment of the quality management system and the reasoned assessment decision.
L3043:  | 3.3.  | The quality management system as approved shall continue to be implemented and maintained by the provider so that it remains adequate and efficient.
L3044:  | 3.4.  | Any intended change to the approved quality management system or the list of AI systems covered by the latter shall be brought to the attention of the notified body by the provider. The proposed changes shall be examined by the notified body, which shall decide whether the modified quality management system continues to satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a reassessment is necessary. The notified body shall notify the provider of its decision.
L3045: The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination of the changes and the reasoned assessment decision.
L3047:  | 4.1.  | In addition to the application referred to in point 3, an application with a notified body of their choice shall be lodged by the provider for the assessment of the technical documentation relating to the AI system which the provider intends to place on the market or put into service and which is covered by the quality management system referred to under point 3.
L3048:  | 4.2.  | The application shall include:
L3049: (a) the name and address of the provider;
L3053:  | 4.4.  | In examining the technical documentation, the notified body may require that the provider supply further evidence or carry out further tests so as to enable a proper assessment of the conformity of the AI system with the requirements set out in Chapter III, Section 2. Where the notified body is not satisfied with the tests carried out by the provider, the notified body shall itself directly carry out adequate tests, as appropriate.
L3056:  | 4.6.  | The decision of the notified body shall be notified to the provider or its authorised representative. The notification shall contain the conclusions of the assessment of the technical documentation and the reasoned assessment decision. Where the AI system is in conformity with the requirements set out in Chapter III, Section 2, the notified body shall issue a Union technical documentation assessment certificate.
L3057: The certificate shall indicate the name and address of the provider, the conclusions of the examination, the conditions (if any) for its validity and the data necessary for the identification of the AI system. The certificate and its annexes shall contain all relevant information to allow the conformity of the AI system to be evaluated, and to allow for control of the AI system while in use, where applicable.
L3060:  | 4.7.  | Any change to the AI system that could affect the compliance of the AI system with the requirements or its intended purpose shall be assessed by the notified body which issued the Union technical documentation assessment certificate. The provider shall inform such notified body of its intention to introduce any of the abovementioned changes, or if it otherwise becomes aware of the occurrence of such changes.
L3061: The intended changes shall be assessed by the notified body, which shall decide whether those changes require a new conformity assessment in accordance with Article 43(4) or whether they could be addressed by means of a supplement to the Union technical documentation assessment certificate.
L3062: In the latter case, the notified body shall assess the changes, notify the provider of its decision and, where the changes are approved, issue to the provider a supplement to the Union technical documentation assessment certificate.
L3063: 5.   Surveillance of the approved quality management system.
L3064:  | 5.1.  | The purpose of the surveillance carried out by the notified body referred to in Point 3 is to make sure that the provider duly complies with the terms and conditions of the approved quality management system.
L3065:  | 5.2.  | For assessment purposes, the provider shall allow the notified body to access the premises where the design, development, testing of the AI systems is taking place. The provider shall further share with the notified body all necessary information.
L3066:  | 5.3.  | The notified body shall carry out periodic audits to make sure that the provider maintains and applies the quality management system and shall provide the provider with an audit report. In the context of those audits, the notified body may carry out additional tests of the AI systems for which a Union technical documentation assessment certificate was issued.
L3067: * * *
L3068: 
L3069: ANNEX VIII
L3070: 
L3071: Information to be submitted upon the registration of high-risk AI systems in accordance with Article 49
L3072: 
L3073: Section A — Information to be submitted by providers of high-risk AI systems in accordance with Article 49(1)
L3074: 
L3075: The following information shall be provided and thereafter kept up to date with regard to high-risk AI systems to be registered in accordance with Article 49(1):
L3076: 1.  | The name, address and contact details of the provider;
L3077: 2.  | Where submission of information is carried out by another person on behalf of the provider, the name, address and contact details of that person;
L3078: 3.  | The name, address and contact details of the authorised representative, where applicable;
L3079: 4.  | The AI system trade name and any additional unambiguous reference allowing the identification and traceability of the AI system;
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Regulation - EU - 2024/1689 - EN - EUR-Lex (https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1689/oj/eng)
citeturn32view1 [wordlim: 200] Crawled: today; Content type: text/html; Source: find({"ref_id":"https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1689/oj/eng","pattern":"‘deep fake’"}); Total lines: 3291
L1041: (60)  | ‘deep fake’ means AI-generated or manipulated image, audio or video content that resembles existing persons, objects, places, entities or events and would falsely appear to a person to be authentic or truthful;
L1042: (61)  | ‘widespread infringement’ means any act or omission contrary to Union law protecting the interest of individuals, which:
L1043: (a) has harmed or is likely to harm the collective interests of individuals residing in at least two Member States other than the Member State in which:
L1786: 4.   Deployers of an AI system that generates or manipulates image, audio or video content constituting a deep fake, shall disclose that the content has been artificially generated or manipulated. This obligation shall not apply where the use is authorised by law to detect, prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offence.
